I am a midwife, by the grace of God -
and I write these lines to you, Johannes.
I feel you are alive somewhere.
I feel it.
In this world of imperfection and sinners
I am guilty of many things.
But not of lack of love.
I shall do as we agreed and wait
for you at the Dead Man 's Cabin.
I will wait, even if I die.
I love you fore ver.
Take the pistol. It's loaded.
Shoot the prisoners.
That's the price for the trip.
Shoot the prisoners, damned Finn!
Shoot the prisoners!
Shoot!
Stand there!
-Brothers in arms!
Back into the sea!
Faster!
Is this where you want to die,
you silly girl?
Forgive me, Johannes.
Forgive me if I lack the strength.
Forgive me if I die.
The phone works again.
You need to go to NäkkäIä.
- I 'm not welcome there.
Wi I l you m a n a g e?
-We know you.
You despise your foster mother
for helping women.
I 've said :
Go to Aune Näkkälä when
you need the Devil 's work done.
I don't kill children,
they are gifts from God.
Don't try to be better than the others.
Wildeye.
The crap of a truck's stuck,
I need to get home quick!
We been waiting for you, stepsister.
Why can't she midwife
the one daughter she has?
Lissu's calving now -
and you bloody
marsh waif will help.
You believe me, girl? Do you?
With 200,000 Germans
loping in the fields -
maidens lose their virtue
and men their cattle.
We'll push the truck going
and get down to business.
Wehrmacht rocks the truck.
What's up, Wildeye?
Red bastard!
Shut your trap, Jaakkima.
No stutterer badmouths
my stepsister.
Heil Hitler to you.
Need to get back home.
The midwife,
she's a coming to help us.
Give me the horn.
A breech birth.
Sister! I've never...
Never let anyone do it from behind.
Someone's schtupped this Skolt -
and God it wasn't.
Shut up, Keskimölsä.
You! Water, quickly.
Heavens above!
Lispetti birthed a negro.
Dammit.
Saw a negro once at a fair
with a crocodile.
This negro's stuck it
in the wrong place.
You shut up, too.
Can you believe it?
My own daughter shames me so.
An actress,
she was a supposed to be.
The new Greta Garbo.
They should both die.
The mother and the kid.
-Looks like a live one.
Into the bog.
It won't see tomorrow.
Smells healthy, too.
Helps to begin life
in the North with a fur.
The years will strip it off.
-What lies are you writing?
What a crock of lies!
-An official document.
What? -A birth certificate.
Hell, no!
Evening. I came to take
photographs for our chronicle.
In here.
Will you pose for the photo, too?
Bloody hell. Now this, too.
A photographer to witness this shame.
Not aloud! He speaks Finnish.
His mother's Finnish.
This man, filmmaker Johann Angelhurst.
Wants to interview you
for a magazine. -Why?
You're a midwife,
a strong woman of a new era.
Germany needs them. Finland, too.
Everyone's shagging and
panting in heat here.
And I go round these shitty
hovels for hard bread.
Dear God.
If you will give me that man
and take me away from here -
I will never ask you for anything more.
I am ready to die anywhere but here.
Lispetti will try to screw that one.
What' she fiIming for?
That's the strangest thing.
He just films.
Asked me to pose, too. But hell, no.
I said yes.
Hurry up then. He's leaving.
Where's he going?
The Titovka Camp, tomorrow.
Still here, Wildeye?
In this den of sin?
Isn't this the house you visit
when you need something?
This is the house where -
friends get coffee,
the enemies lead.
This time, coffee.
How is it with you, Pietari's daughter?
Need to work at the camp. Titovka.
Why are you talking crazy?
Your father thought we can do
what we want. Became a saboteur.
Got himself killed!
You want that?
-Why ask here?
They decide things like that in Rovaniemi.
They won't take me.
They will check and find out -
about father, and other things.
-Poor girl, scab nose.
You want to screw that Fritz?
Forget him.
Help me, stepbrother.
-I can't.
You can. You can fix it.
I won't. It's no place for humans.
Anything's better than now.
Haven't you had enough
of bombs and death here?
I know what happened to Lissu's kid.
What's that? An eagle took it.
I know where you buried it.
I gave it a proper burial.
I can show you.
Shut your trap, Wildeye.
Are you stupid enough -
to want to go to the camp?
You'll die there, come the armistice.
I am.
Shit. I'll fix it, then.
Promise to tell me if you see Heta?
Yes, yes.
Been looking for her all through the war.
DO NOT FEED
THE PRISONERS OF WAR
Drive in, bootlegger.
Don't hit anything.
Try to look like -
you've worked in camps like this.
What the fug-arse are those?
My things.
You're not going to a spa, you fool.
Leave them be.
Or they'll know we've been lying.
Two ducks, one's dancing -
and the other looks at an onion.
"It's better this way. "
And then the duck, honestly -
begins to eat the onion.
Evening.
We've been waiting for you.
There' ll be reindeer soup
and klinge for supper.
There's the telephone,
power plant and the showers.
The armoury and the food store.
In his building, the sickbay
and some other operations.
As you can see, every corner -
has a tower and searchlights.
There we can see if
the little Miss tries to escape.
But that's not for you Finns.
Aleksey is an interpreter.
Knows German, Finnish, Russian.
And some strange Finno-Ugric languages.
I hardly learned a word for a year, myself.
Took me two years.
Play the violin for us, boy.
Please.
A Finnish nurse.
The Third Reich values you especially.
There are -
not many soldiers here.
Trustee prisoners, volunteers, SS men.
How did you run your camps in Karelia?
How does this compare?
It's difficult to...
-That's where you were.
At the Isthmus.
-This is finer.
Leave us, please.
I should go to the sickbay.
-It's taken care of.
Haataja, the other nurse
runs it at the moment.
Operation Kuhstall is her area.
You handle the rest of the camp,
and the animals.
Operation Kuhstall?
That's Cowshed, right?
That's not your area, miss.
Johann. You must take a photo of us.
I don't know how to be in a picture.
Finns and Germans -
we are one.
I can give you a cure for the shakes.
I've got it!
Russian boy.
We need soft soap, lye, cleanser.
Make a list.
What're you doing with the drugs?
You hear?
The name's Aleksey Ignatenko.
I can't remember every
Russkie's name.
Can I trust you?
I don't know.
I'm getting out of here. Tonight.
You can't tell me that.
I know what happens in the Cowshed.
The Germans will kill me soon.
I know too much.
Well, I don't.
Haven't been to the last ward.
What goes on in there?
Promise to leave the door
open for me tonight?
I'll make it look like
it's been broken down.
I beg you.
From my heart,
I wish you hadn't told me.
The foot must come right off.
Hold him still!
And you keep your mouth shut.
There will -
be load of bodies from the Cowshed.
Bag them, report to me.
What do you do there?
Sin.
Masha Petrov.
You said you know
how to bathe a man.
That I do.
Shall I lie on this?
You have such wild eyes -
and you know your herbs.
I need to ask something.
I have nightmares.
What do you mean?
Don't remember properly.
Flashes. Of piles of corpses.
Death.
I wake up at night and hear it.
Women's laughter, every night.
It's the Russkies.
They play women's laughter
from enormous loudspeakers -
to drive the enemy mad.
Don't go anywhere. I'll be right back.
That's enough. Take her away.
No! -What?
She's just a little girl,
she's no saboteur!
What the hell?
-She'll be my helper.
Collects mushrooms and lichen.
I need one more hand.
Into the Cowshed.
All women in there! Faster!
Everyone in!
Everyone in! Faster!
We' I l prepare the prisoners.
Shave the hair, delousing.
Boil the rags properly.
Pregnant ones into quarantine.
Riisuutukaa, vaatteet tänne.
Our home, our soul
Our home, our soul...
What's happened?
Where' re you going?
To a manhunt.
The Russkie boy got away.
There's a bounty on his head.
And if they catch hi m?
-He's got no chance.
They'll smell him like a wolverine,
play with him before the kill.
You mustn't kill him.
If they bring him to the camp -
he'll dig his own grave.
Then a bullet in the neck.
That's his life like now.
I'll come with you.
I can help him if we
get him out here alive.
I'll get my gear.
Johannes. What are they doing?
Removing mines. Don't worry.
Listen.
Can you keep the boy alive
when they find him?
I don't think so.
Down!
Helena!
I can breathe here.
In the camp, you run out of oxygen.
Have you noticed?
We're in the war now,
but we'll make it.
Don't worry.
Did you have someone
to stroke you in Germany?
Where're we going now?
We'll look for a shelter.
Return to the camp when
the situation calms down.
Behind that hill is a cabin
near the Arctic Ocean.
We'll be safe there,
perhaps get radio contact.
Hell, no. I knows this place.
I'm not coming there, no.
Dead Man's Cabin, not good for me.
We'll continue.
We'll stay here.
An ordinary cabin.
You learn these things
when men go crazy -
because of you Fritzes
and lock up their women.
I'm not coming in there.
This place is not on any map.
A man's just been killed here.
-Don't fuss.
I know it!
That's the Devil's den!
I already got all the devils I need.
Where's the Bootlegger?
I heard shouting.
Jouni went to look for help.
Don't worry about him.
What's that?
-My medicine.
From Gödel.
A beautiful trunk,
and a beautiful woman.
That's what I found here.
Don't know about the trunk.
Don't know about the woman.
Both are locked.
Why don't you take a picture of me?
-Why not.
You think God will see us here.
But he won't.
I am all yours if you want me.
I won't touch you.
You are a good person.
Nothing wrong with you.
You think I'm hot-blooded?
Is my pussy set the right way?
Just the way it should.
-Let me show you what you are.
Inside me, you will see it.
What am I?
-You are...
A good man, Johannes.
The war has not touched you, Wildeye.
We're at the same camp.
What is it with you?
Always so sad-eyed.
We'll get married.
Get permission from Gödel.
Or Hitler himself.
I'm not going back to that camp.
Here, I can sleep.
It's not on any map.
It's just us here.
Just us.
If we ever get separated -
we'll meet again here.
Dead Man's Cabin. Promise?
I promise.
I'll wait for you here even
if I get lead poisoning.
And the Stalin's Organs roar.
Show me your photos.
I won't.
Of your family. Your life.
I have no family of my own.
No.
I want to learn you. I want to -
Iook through your eyes
and see everything inside.
I wonder what that would be.
Your true soul.
And I have eyes that see.
That's why I'm the Wildeye.
I can see. Everything.
Your soul.
Whatever that is.
What now?
I'll go uphill, see if can
raise them on the radio.
Report where we are -
so you won't get in trouble.
I don't care.
Forgot the camera case.
Where did you get them?
They're my work.
Why did you do that?
I don't care about them,
that's war! But tell me!
Those photos.
They're straight from
my nightmares or -
even worse.
Have you done such things?
Yes, or...
I can't remember.
It was long ago - in Babi Yar.
Gödel killed a lot of people.
Or we killed a lot of people.
I can't remember!
Helena!
-Oh, hell.
Kneel there.
Damn you, I say.
Right.
This one was in a barn
sheltering from the rain.
Why did you take him with you?
-I meant to shoot him.
Then we shook hands.
I get money for this one.
He's been hiding in
a potato cellar all week.
We may all be charged for it.
He must be shot.
Write papers for him for the camp.
He's a good boy.
I can't.
Half a dozen men
are looking for him.
I helped him escape.
He's my trustee.
You won't shoot him.
Dammit. We must kill him.
Help me escape.
You are a good person.
Let's go! He's dead!
Thank you. You must go.
We have missed you.
You're the only nurse in the camp now.
You begin your new job in
the Cowshed tomorrow.
My brother. We've got work for you.
Do you have any medicine?
You should just kill yourself.
Proper music. And theatre.
You miss them here.
CiviIization.
She drinks.
A promising beginning.
Devil's piss. Shit.
Now, Miss.
What happened and
where were you that week?
It was just like -
Jouni and Johannes said.
We got caught in the raid.
Found a car and drove to the camp.
Really? Did you see the fugitive?
-No.
So hardy.
Like a... What are they...
Dwarf birch.
Johann is not a completely
healthy man.
Nothing wrong with him.
A broken frontal bone.
You know why?
In the Ukraine, at Babi Yar.
Johann and the men were having fun.
Shot young swallows at a sandpit.
Killed thousands.
Tens of thousands.
I tried to stop them.
What did he do?
Broke my skull with a Mauser.
That's not true!
What the hell?
That's the Commandant's chair.
A wooden chair.
Get up! -Why?
Will you shoot me?
Get up.
This chair.
Smells of shite!
A hint of cognac.
You are the most courageous
woman I know.
Who may decide -
who lives and who dies?
The hell I know?
Believe me, I don't know either.
I just follow orders.
That's all.
You cut and collect.
Begin with that.
Shut the door.
Turn around!
One by one, to the right!
The Cowshed.
It's no place for humans.
Fear not. I promise to get
you out of there, Wildeye.
Haataja had a different job.
Believe me.
Tell me about your mother.
My mother Annikki and
my father Fritz Angelhurst -
met in Petsamo.
Mother gave travellers ant baths -
ate raw birds and fish.
Mother died giving birth to me.
Father never forgave me.
My father was killed, too.
But he was not a good father.
You are hot-blooded.
Just like me!
I can still taste you.
Have you eaten fruit? -What?
You smell fruitful.
I love you.
Greetings from the open
Foaming sea
The shore's nowhere in sight.
The wind blows wild
Even a sailor takes fright
When the stormy weather blows.
I keep thinking of you out here
Ah ah, thinking of you
The sparkle of your eyes of blue
And your golden curls.
And I sing my song to you
Can you love me despite what happened -
if it is true?
I will. I can't do otherwise.
We're leaving.
You want to? -I do.
Listen carefully, I've arranged things.
Rovaniemi for two days.
You are safe, you are a Finn.
You just have to trust me.
Remember the Dead Man's Cabin.
If the war ever separates us -
wait for me there.
It'd be good to live there.
-I promise to come back.
I love thee.
Please come back.
They're from the camp.
Jew, soldiers, politruks.
Are you involved in this? -No.
But you are, and Johannes.
They used to kill and bury you.
Now they dig up and destroy
corpses to leave no evidence.
Insane business!
It's the Devil's doing, Satan's work.
The times are changing.
You think it won't touch you.
But you may come to a sad end.
Wrong things happen
happening at the camp. -True.
You can't accept it.
Your job is just -
to help those women. -How?
Any way we can.
God gave you a gift.
Use it!
They poison the prisoners at night.
Gödel makes tests with the unborn babies.
And I see how they screw the women.
By force, without leave.
Some prisoners are given injections.
Straight in the back, -
in the hip, the buttocks.
Sometimes I think -
someone has put in the drinks I give -
cholera, or some other plague.
They died so fast.
I was -
a Child of God.
A child of God.
And now I am an Angel of Death.
You think you're better than we others.
You aren't.
Russian prisoner, number 1322.
Malnourished, won't talk.
Anaemia: iron deficiency.
Premature childbirth.
Did the foetus die? -It did.
You do talk.
And Finnish!
Good. What's your name?
Heta.
Are you Finnish?
From Kirkkoniemi?
You're Heta! I know you!
Jouni's been looking for you like mad.
I'll send him a word right away.
He'll come to get you. -Don't.
Don't tell him I'm like this.
I'll get you into other ward.
So you don't have to be
here in the Cowshed.
But Jouni's been looking
for you like crazy.
Stop!
A Finnish woman is
among the prisoners.
also among the prisoners.
Heta Knepps.
You may not take Finns.
We don't know where she's from.
She speaks Finnish.
And you do tests on her.
You can't put her in the Cowshed.
We won't. For now.
She can be a control case
for the rest of the scum.
Our tests benefit
the whole of humanity.
Think about -
what ails mankind.
Cholera.
Typhus, disease.
The plague.
We fight them here -
with our small contribution.
Can I move her or not?
One more thing.
You lied to me.
You never were at the other camps.
No one lies to me without consequences.
Get out, please.
You'll be transferred tomorrow.
I'll send a word to Jouni.
He'll come to fetch us.
Sleep now.
And stay alive.
Open the door!
Get in! Faster, you swine!
Get in! Shut the door!
Get in! Faster!
Shut the door!
Today, our delegation in Moscow -
signed an agreement on the armistice -
with the Soviet Union
and the United Kingdom.
A serious matter is that we must disarm -
the German troops in our country
and hand them over to the Allies.
Despite this, we must quickly -
demobilise our forces.
The terms of the armistice
contain 23 separate points.
Did you hear? Peace.
To be correctly understood...
Put the Russians in the prison barracks.
The women from
the Cowshed into the yard -
and the Finns in rows in the middle.
All documents in the hospital
must be burned.
Get the Finns to help you!
Move it!
Goddamn it!
This is bad.
The Germans won 't bloody
leave without a fight.
Get in there.
Jouni will come for you,
meanwhile stay out of sight.
They'll find me here.
-They won't.
That's for the d rugs and
injections given to the prisoners.
The Germans fear
they'll catch the plague.
Lights out!
You know where the documents are.
The tests. Destroy everything.
Give me the key to the safe.
I don't have it.
Give me the key.
Locked.
Take the safe outside
and blow it open.
You stupid woman.
I won't do Satan's work
for you anymore.
for you any more.
Fetch explosives and blow up...
-I understand.
I won't do it.
Do your death work yourself!
I won't do Satan's work
for you any more!
Do your death work yourself!
I won't be part of this war any more.
I won't be part of it!
You hear? I won't be part of it.
Kill them yourself!
I won't do it any more!
Do your death work yourself!
I won't be part of this war.
By height order.
All prisoners in rows by height order.
We will leave tomorrow.
I'll come for you in the morning.
You're under arrest!
For court-martial!
This woman is guilty
of aiding a prisoner.
We made a head count.
The Finnish woman you helped
escaped last night.
I know nothing of it.
I must punish you.
I could kill you.
But I don't want to.
Johannes will avenge me!
Johannes -
is either a prisoner or dead.
The Russians are less than
10 km away, advancing fast.
I am sorry.
Are you all right?
Your back looks bad.
We must flee. Give me my glasses.
We don't have much time.
Or they will kill me -
and burn you in the storeroom.
Wait here, take out the gun.
We are escaping now.
Help me escape.
I'm not afraid of guns any more.
Three years -
in this hole.
I will help you.
He's alive.
Kill him! Kill!
I'm not a butcher.
Let's go!
Get into a shelter.
I'll find us some food.
The hell you're doing here?
Things turned hot in Finland -
trying to find Heta
in the camp and the ports.
Russkies came with such force -
they almost got the Fritzes crying.
Didn't give me the good eye, either.
Is it you, Jouni?
Heta?
Yes.
I've been looking for you.
Come closer if you promise
not to look at me.
Hair's gone.
-Don't ask.
I won't if you don't want me to.
I've been running everywhere -
and you are here.
Sometimes things turn out well.
This German boat goes to Narvik.
I paid them to take you to the cabin.
But be careful.
Life is cheap now,
don't trust anyone.
I'll take Heta to safety,
and come for you.
Who is it?
What are you afraid of?
You're fine.
Love sure tastes sweet but -
it hurts my soul to leave you, Wildeye.
Carve a pair of skis for me.
For the winter.
I won't! You'll die anyway.
If I die, I die.
But now you'll take me
to Björne's store.
He must have a third eye
for the bad times.
How would he guess
we'd be coming today?
I told him.
Take it easy inside,
don't ask questions.
Tell you later.
When Lispetti gave birth to the negro -
I said now I've seen it all.
These will get you to Sweden -
and over the sea
to Southern Finland.
We'll leave Johannes'
passport at the cabin.
He'll find it there if he's still alive.
He has a Finnish passport? -Yes.
Got him a Finnish birth certificate.
Damn you, Wildeye.
Along the swamp to the sea.
You know why -
I never had to go to the war?
Shot a bullet in my leg
through a block of wood.
I'm a coward.
I knew about it.
You're not a coward, brother.
Just plain crazy.
We'll see again soon!
It's cold.
I'll make a fire for Johannes.
So you stayed here to die.
Take it easy. Sit.
I'm not afraid of dying.
I wouldn't move around much, though.
Gorges full of SS bomb units.
Russians at the Teno already,
German patrols all the way from Alta.
Fritzes burn up Lapland
as they retreat.
Told me to slaughter everyone
I find in these fjords.
And they pay well.
They will burn this cabin, too.
And you, when they find you.
The axe is outside.
And you have no gun.
No guns, no.
Don't kill me.
Now you have one.
Left the bullets on a rock outside.
You might just be crazy enough
to shoot me.
Dried meat, tinned British beef,
a keg of rum.
Your father told me to give this to you.
Killed him a year ago, I had to.
A good man, though.
Watched over you, regretted everything.
Forgive me.
Hey! Where're you going?
Stop! Do you hear?
Volodka, who is he?
Show me your papers.
Did you lose your keys?
Stand back.
I'll open the door.
Right. Come here.
Alarm!
A prisoner escapes!
Men! Our orders are
to burn the house.
I say -
we lock it up first, and call Ifjord.
All right?
I will write a few more lines.
There is no more food.
I even ate the candle.
Darling, it was not tasty.
I will die now, knowing that
you are on your way here.
If you were here -
we would talk at the same time -
as lovers do when they meet again.
I will smile, happy, and...
I a m h e re.
Good that you are here.
You took your bloody time.
I carry...
I carry our child inside me.
It is a quiet one.
I can't feel its heartbeat anymore.
I was so afraid -
and now you saved us.
I cooked for you.
Bloody hell.
I put the candle in it.
Do you want to love a man like me?
I'm sure I don't.
But I do love you so.
I feel like I am resurrected.
Now to Sweden and then
to safety in Finland.
We 'll be always together. Always.
Now I have nothing more to tell.